# Engage-22-Project-Recipe4u

**Wake'up. It's Food O'Clock** 🍕. 

Must have heard 'Bon Appetit', a French phrase meaning 'enjoy your meal'. 

This is '**Recipe$u**',(informal for food) 😋. We all enjoy delicious food being served to us, but how many of us have enjoyed watching recipes. So, this is an attempt to bring to you the best and popular recipes in the world to help you save that hunt for the perfect recipe. 

> Sound amazing, right? Let's see how this is cooked and served 👨🏻‍🍳.

### WORKING
<hr>
This is a web application that works like a recipe repository for all those foodies out there who are waiting to try out new recipes. It works on a recommendation engine built using machine learning models which would secretly identify the user's taste buds and try to keep the user attached to this application by recommending similar recipes based on the content browsed. 

A recommendation engine could be classified based on three major categories: 

- Content Based Approach
- Collaborative Filtering Approach
- Hybrid Approach

For this project, I have used the **Content Based Filtering** approach. With a mix of generalized collaborative approach, the model acts as a hybrid model as it takes into account the opinion of other users to generate a recommendation. Recommendations made by the engine work in different ways according to the various models it has, namely

- Popularity Based Recommender
- Category Based Recommender (Takes into account the ratings and popularity too)
- Content Based Recommender (Based on recipe name, description, keywords, ingredients, quantities, and time it takes to prepare a recipe)

The dataset contains recipes and reviews present on [Food.com]( https://www.food.com/). The recommendation model took 9000 recipes from the dataset to prepare the engine. The engine prepared was integrated with **Flask** Application and a server was created to serve the **.pkl** files generated by the model. The Flask app was then integrated with a **NodeJS** server which finally renders the data fetched from the server to the application clients for the end user to use. 


Hope you like the recommendations!! **Happy Grubbing** ✨!! 
